my parents kicked me out of the house
when I was in the eth OR nth grade like
you nobody is going to be there for you
this is how this works and so I became
extremely self-reliant and it I remember
just getting so angry I mean even early
marriage I was so angry cuz nobody would
show up for me and you know one day I'm
sitting there complaining about how
people don't show up for me and my
friend was like yeah you make that
impossible I was like what
[Music]
all right everybody welcome back to the
art of accomplishment where we explore
living the life you want with enjoyment
and ease hey Bri Hey Hey Joe how you
doing yeah how am I doing I've been I've
been going through a thing lately which
has been really fascinating for
me and it has to do with self-reliance
which is what I want to talk about today
now I have this friend who we've been
friends for years and over that time
he's been building a business and you
know I when I first met him you know I
was I felt far newer in the the Bay Area
VC funded Tech scene and he seemed like
a very uh like an incumbent uh a veteran
yeah and so I started out kind of seeing
him as this person who knows what's
going on and many ways he does but also
I've been more recently starting to
realize how the way that I've been
seeing him in that light has actually
been preventing me from showing up in
ways that I could actually support him
and um more recently you know the the
funding environment's been challenging
in many sectors and you know he's been
having a hard time raising money for his
company and recently they hit something
that is both a crisis as well as a
blooming opportunity and it's sort of a
high risk you never know which way it's
going to go but there's suddenly there's
a lot of valences for support and I
found myself stepping in and realizing
that there's actually connections that I
have there's ideas that I have
there's um there's resources that I
could bring and I realized that this is
something that I hadn't been doing
before with this person for some reason
mhm I I had been seeing this person as
they've got it and it had never occurred
to me to be like hey why don't I
introduce you to these people yeah and
somehow that all dropped away very
recently and I've been finding myself uh
joyfully engaged in what's going on in
that uh in that whole situation which is
actually really it's very exciting uh
both in terms of possibility but also in
the the joy of Engagement and like being
in it yeah I have I have a curiosity
because
I I've seen this phenomenon before but
mostly from the other side because I
mostly work with like extremely
self-reliant people right most of my
most of the people can come to a course
they make enough money there's a lot of
self-reliance there and not all and all
the CEOs I work with there's usually a
big streak of self-reliance and um so
the question I have
is as this crisis opportunity showed up
how is he asking for help more how is he
showing up in a way that makes room for
you to to step in and be there for him
yeah that's fascinating there's I mean
there's so many parallel things going on
one there's ways that he asked for help
from me that I don't think he had before
yeah two there's ways that I saw his
excitement and the way that he was like
responding to the Ever Changing
situation that like I wanted to get
drawn in I was like I want to be part of
this excitement and then I found myself
asking how can I help in ways that I
hadn't been doing in the past despite
being really excited about their uh what
they've been doing in the world for a
long time something something in the
energetics of the of our experience
together switched yeah so that's
something so what I see is that and I I
I experienced it firsthand in my life
earlier
which was I was extremely self-reliant
right so you know my background dad was
emotionally abusive and alcoholic and so
I learned at a very young age nobody was
going to be there for you right my
parents kicked me out of the house when
I was in the eth OR ninth grade like you
nobody is going to be there for you this
is how this works and so I became
extremely self-reliant and it I remember
just getting so angry I mean even early
marriage I was so angry because nobody
would show up for me
and you know one day I'm sitting there
complaining about how people don't show
up for me and my friend was like yeah
you make that
impossible I was like
what what I make that
impossible and you know when you have
that strong thing of self-reliance where
because people didn't show up for you
there's a way that that
hurt that self-reliance hurt that oh I
have to do this for myself and so you
don't want to open up a door where
somebody can let you down again yeah and
so you you you start acting like you got
it all together I got this I got it yeah
I'm I know I know I've got it I know I
got it it's okay yeah no blah blah blah
blah and then if someone does help you
because you're scared of having them let
you down you double check their work do
they really have it are you really going
to be there did you really it's like
asking a teenager to do something six
times they're just like [__] off and
they don't do it right like it's but you
do that with all your friends and so
that's or people who work for you and
that's what I noticed is that I had to
look forward to being abandoned to be
let down so that I could overcome
self-reliance at the same time
self-reliance was like amazing in some
ways and so there was goods and bads
with it but there was definitely some
drawbacks that I didn't want to live
with anymore how would you define
self-reliance what what exactly does
that pattern look
like yeah the pattern is typically you
were abandoned or somebody let you down
horribly when you were a kid so some way
that you were supposed to be a tune to
you didn't get a tune to and the only
way to take care of yourself was to take
care of yourself it wasn't to depend on
somebody else to take care of you it
wasn't to convince somebody else to take
care of you so if you had a circumstance
where there was just no way you were
going to get the financial support you
needed or the emotional support you
needed
from the from the
environment then you started saying oh
I'm I have to be there I have to be able
to do this for
myself there's a feeling that arises in
you that's partially disappointment but
also
helplessness and you just are not going
to allow yourself to feel that and so
wait no I'm not going to feel that I
will be determined as hell I will focus
I will do whatever I
will push and pull and scream and
scratch to get it so that I don't ever
have to feel that level of helplessness
again and you see this sometimes with
people who grow up poor and they just no
matter what happens they are going to
not be destitute again or you can see it
with people who are emotionally let down
and they are just never going to be hurt
again that's they're going to create
that reality and so that's where
self-reliance it's just that will that
comes online to not feel that way and it
makes you incredibly
resourceful yeah so there's there's a
couple pieces to break down there one is
that you needed you needed support in
some way and you didn't get it you were
let down it seems like there's a also a
way where you're not allowed to feel the
disappointment you're not allowed to
feel that heartbreak yeah or you're not
allowed to need you're not allowed to
ask there can be any any entry point any
of those could be entry points to
developing that implicit or explicit
yeah usually it's an imp it's an
implicit thing where so either I I have
to totally admit that the people who are
here to take care of me that are adults
that are my caregivers are completely
incapable I don't want to have to feel
that so it's that kind of or sometimes
you get punished know you can't be
disappointed in me or they're not even
there to feel that way so you have to
just take care of you and your sister or
whatever it is so there's that that as
well there's you know rejection of that
emotion or or shame when you've had that
emotion but typically
it's it's implicit it's I it's really
overwhelming for a 5-year-old to think
that they're not being taken care of by
the adults in the room yeah yeah that
the surface is that surface is one of
the Tells of self-reliance that I've
started to see which is somebody's going
through life some setback happens and
they just go immediately onto the next
thing they're like oh that happened
we're moving on to this now this is a
new thing and there's a way that that
actually looks really emotionally
intelligent from one perspective yeah
but if you take the full Journey it's
like I wanted something I got
disappointed I let myself feel the
Heartbreak of it and be seen in that and
in and then I can move on to what's next
then I can move on to what's next and
not repeat it right cannot repeat the
pattern because it's in in that middle
space where you're allowing yourself to
feel the to feel what you have to feel
and not having your expectations met and
also be seen in it that's where the
opportunity for support yes comes in
that's right and support and healing
yeah yeah so the self-reliance is often
times the self-reliant character is a
hard is it's hard to
heal because you're not having the mour
process which means you're not feeling
the emotion that you were that you
couldn't feel the first time around or
the second time around or the third time
around so you can't get out of the
golden algorithm you can't get to a
place where you're where you feel the
Heartbreak feel the grief of the
situation of the pattern that's
repeating so that you can welcome that
emotional experience in the future and
they're least likely to ask for support
in healing that thing exactly yeah yeah
that's right so what are what are some
of the
benefits of of the self-reliant
pattern yeah like I said resourceful
willful
Drive there's just a
deep it's not quite disciplin but it's a
I will overcome
resilience grit grit yeah yeah there's a
lot of that that comes with
self-reliance and every single really
successful CEO I know has a a pretty
heavy self-reliance streak that they
have to
overcome in part to have a great team
mhm
because if they're too self-reliant
they're micromanagers they don't they
can't attract great talent they can't
delegate well yeah so let's go further
into that the costs what what what are
some of the failure modes when when the
self-reliant pattern isn't overcome and
is driving the driving the show whether
it's in a company or in a life
yeah it's a lot of failures and it one
is it's really hard to experience
getting help
even if you're getting it you don't get
to experience that you're getting help
you make a transactional or you push it
away um that's one thing uh the other
thing that is that there's a whole set
of solutions that you don't see because
you couldn't even imagine that other
people would want to
participate so it's all all the solution
sets revolve around you in your capacity
and no matter how smart you are there
are certain things you are going to be
in incapable of and so so there's just
you can't have as wide of a of a reach
you can't make as big of a company you
can't have as large of an impact if you
don't get over some of that
self-reliance um so that's another one
uh there's a deep feeling of aloneness
that comes with
self-reliance you can be surrounded by
people but you feel like you're all
alone in it yeah and so that's that's
quite painful as well those are some of
them yeah as I've been working through
my own self Rel have also noticed that
there's a there's been a shift in the
way that I perceive people so if I if I
am self-reliant or I'm running the
self-reliant pattern thinking I need to
be self-reliant I'm more likely to
believe other people either should be or
are self-reliant so there's a distance
that that creates yeah and I'm less
likely to perceive them as having open
valances for me to support them yeah
there's a couple other things that
happen in in in that similar vein if you
go the other way the more extremely
self-reliant you get the easier it is to
justify heinous acts on other
humans so think about it this way if you
relied on your natural environment for
all your food you probably wouldn't
hypothetically hypothetic hypothetically
if you needed something like a biosphere
to produce food that you eat exactly but
it was a direct thing you knew that if
yeah these trees got poisoned you would
not eat you probably wouldn't poison
those trees you would make sure you
would do what you had to do to protect
those trees the more removed you get
from that the more you don't think that
you're relying on nature or you can't
feel that you're relying on nature the
easier it is to pollute M it's the same
thing with humans the more transactional
your world gets the easier it is to just
say well the algorithm says that these
people shouldn't get health care or
whatever it is it's easier to create to
have heinous acts on people if you don't
feel the interdependence that all humans
have on each other now we are we all
rely on this biosphere but right
transaction can make it so that you
don't see it yeah and we all rely on
each other like we couldn't even have
electricity without thousands of people
right but it's it all can be hidden
through transaction and the further that
gets away the easier it is to do things
that hurt people all the way to you know
autocracy
yeah I mean something that that
description surfaces is that
self-reliance is an illusion all the way
down it's a an illusion all the way down
and the more you believe in that
illusion the more likely it is that
you're going to be hurting a lot of
people yeah and it doesn't I'm not
saying that all self-reliant people hurt
other folks and I some of them have
great
intentions but the other seems to be
very true I've never met somebody who's
hurt a lot of folks who doesn't feel
like it's all on them
that that they have to do it right it's
like it's like a shrinking sense of self
like a smaller sense of self if if what
you see as what you're relying on is yes
all arrows point back to self then
you're not seeing the broader ecosystem
in which you are a part of a system of
Greater someone was going to take it so
it might as well have been me somebody
was going to do it so it might as well
have been me it's it starts becoming
that kind of mentality yeah instead of
oh I rely on all these people can't hurt
them yeah and you see this economically
happening
it's you know it's it's no secret
economically that a strong middle class
makes everybody
wealthier but the more self-reliant you
get the easier it is to say I'm getting
Wealthy on the backs of shrinking the
middle class yeah and then everybody
gets poor including there becomes less
and less people in the society they're
wealthy and that highlights sort of how
this propagates through society as well
for every person who feels self self
reliant to someone else that person
looks selfish or self-absorbed or self
centered or self whatever right and
there's a lack of possible connection
and interconnection available you hide
from yourself the ways that you actually
are reliant so if I have a belief that I
should be self-reliant then the ways
that I actually am reliant on say all of
my employees caring about the vision and
showing up for work every day and then
putting their hard into what they're
doing I get to say that I'm actually
just hiring them and that I'm I'm the
one driving the ship and that this is
still all like I'm alone in it the the
one thing that I want to make sure of is
it we don't it's not like self-reliant
people are bad guys you just had this
metaphor somebody says look they're
selfish right right and that is part of
what makes self-reliant people
self-reliant right yeah people look at
that self-reliant person and they make
them bad guys yeah instead of seeing
that they're
scared so it's a two-way it's a both
people you were also just not helping
your friend totally right like you could
have looked at your friend who looks
self-reliant and say oh I see I got a
friend who needs help or or that I or
that I just want to help them or that
they're not being an [__] they're
just
scared and and those little acts that
the people the CEOs don't get you always
know who the leader in the room is like
who the CEO is cuz they're the ones
that's handing out the
compliments nobody looks to the CEO and
says wow that was a really good job
Bob you know and if they do it's usually
it's usually with some sycophancy it's
it's some it's not just hey I
acknowledge that you've done some really
hard work
today and so they're not being seen and
that yes they're creating that reality
but also so are the people who are yeah
who are looking at them as self-reliance
so it's a two-way street it's an
interesting two-way street yeah and so
is the way that we put them we in
society often put self-reliance on a
pedestal look how self-reliant this
person is that's right you know even
like a burning man principles radical
self-reliance and yet also it's right
show up naked with no water and find
exactly the pla provides like how
somehow it's both of those things but uh
ex but you know we have we we have that
kind of headwind in in our culture
against asking for help
vulnerably against asking for help or
seeing that you're getting it all the
time yeah that you're
constantly you know be on a garbage
strike in New York City for a
summer you'll see how Reliant you are on
on
everybody but like you said it's really
easy to not see it so we've we've spoken
about the intellectual I want to go into
more of the emotional experience of like
what is it like
emotionally to to be self-reliant and
living that pattern for decades how
would I know shut
up I'm here supporting you teeing you up
with your story see it come on exactly
for me in the really heavy self-reliant
days there was a feeling of aloneness
you
know early businesses that I was
involved in it was why can't people act
like
owners I wasn't letting them but um but
there's a feeling of aloneness there's a
feeling like you have to do it all
yourself it's often very frustrating
suffring people often can get frustrated
relatively easy because of that same
it's hard to feel the helplessness as
hurt or fear so it's easier to Feel It
is anger typically not always but
typically and self-reliant people often
compartmentalize our emotions while
they're while they're in the super
self-reliant phase because they can't
allow themselves to be overwhelmed they
have to get everything
done um and so there's Sometimes some a
grandis of themselves as well look I've
done this all myself and other people
haven't and so there can also be AIT a
bit of arrogance that comes all of those
are some of the emotions that come with
self-reliance so what was one of the of
course this is never just a single
moment but what are some of the pattern
interrupts that occurred for
you feeling my emotions was one of the
most important aspects was learning how
to feel the anger and the sadness
sadness for me was the hardest at the
beginning as you know crying learning
how to feel that feeling hurt feeling
anger all the way baby a baby in a crib
crying is possibly like the Prototype
helpless expression yeah yeah the
Prototype
self-reliant a
baby allowed to cry in the crib all
alone for hours yeah until they St like
the moment they stop is the moment they
start becoming self-reliant this pattern
yeah yeah
so so that was yeah that was emotionally
a big part of how it felt for me and
then the pattern
interrupts so feeling feeling emotions
was a big part of the change one was the
when my friend basically like I said
told me it's CU you're not allowing and
when I got to see that I was in a golden
algorithm with that I was pushing people
away that I wasn't making room for
people to help I wasn't vulnerable able
so people could help me in that in that
moment of vulnerability and then when I
tested it out and was so
surprised I need help and somebody came
to help me I was like H what what's
going on um still took me a long time to
see it uh welcoming the abandonment was
a big one for me welcoming that feeling
of Abandonment because as I did I could
be vulnerable and in that vulnerability
help
came I remember this roomy poem that
basically says that all a nursing mother
wants is a b to hear a baby's cry and
it's this huh idea that that's the way
the universe works if you cry out your
weakness that it's waiting to come and
and provide for you yeah and I tested
that theory a little bit and then I
tested a little bit more and it just
kept on kept on showing up that if I
could be vulnerable it wasn't like every
every time I was vulnerable everybody
would show
up but when I was vulnerable able people
would show up and often time the amazing
thing was one of the recognitions I had
is as I was
self-reliant I had a lot of people
around me who were used to me being
self-reliant not needing them and
therefore if there was any transaction
it was me giving them stuff giving them
my time or my attention or my advice or
whatever it was and when that started
dropping other people showed up and I
remember I was I was was raising money
for a short film it was the first time
that I ever went and raised money and I
all the people who I'd been so generous
to almost none of them helped me raise
money and all the people who were super
self-reliant now that I think about it I
hadn't thought about it this way but
they they they were generous folks but
they never needed me for
anything those were the folks that were
the most likely to give to the thing I
was raising money for and that was a it
was like oh the universe provided for me
so to speak like I got the stuff that I
needed when I said I needed help but it
just wasn't from the people that I had
those relationships with it was from the
people who
were who were just naturally givers who
were naturally had something to give and
many of them being self-reliant
themselves but yeah so that was an
interesting thing to see yeah it's
interesting to to think of different
different ways that you can operate from
self-reliance one of them being to give
to everybody so that you don't have to
receive yeah another think about your
friend yeah I'm pretty sure he is doing
that same thing he's almost always in
the role of The Giver of advice he's
almost always in the role of providing
for other oh mentors many people mentors
many people right that's one of that's
one of our tricks that's one of our
self- relying tricks yeah yeah yeah
especially in like the like sort of like
the coach archetype as well it's really
easy to get into the coaching profession
to be like oh great like I can be for a
whole bunch of people and then never to
admit never have to admit that I need
them right yeah a surrogate for the
intimacy that I really want that's right
yeah that's one of the big dangers and
pitfalls of coaching yeah yeah for you
as that pattern fell away
what what emerged in its
wake a lot
less less of what
me it's like an ego death in it there's
you know these patterns they never
completely extinguish that you know
there's still parts that are more and
more finely Unwound forms of
self-reliance but the but
generally there's a there's a ego that
has to be
maintained right to what are we relying
on yeah when we call when we think we're
self-reliant what is that self is that
construction right and that's that's
there's an ego to that that just starts
yeah dropping away and there's an
openness and there's
a there's a sweetness there's more
gratitude typically there's more faith
not Faith like in
a in a religious sense I guess it's kind
of religious but it's there's just a
faith in how things will work it doesn't
require you to manage reality as much a
trust the trust yeah yeah exactly
awesome cool yeah thank you Joe you're
welcome
thanks man yeah thanks everyone for
listening to the art of accomplishment
you can find us on YouTube Twitter
SLX and all the platforms at Art of a
comp Joe is on X as fuore Joe Hudson I
Am Eric kler a i r k s t l r and we've
got a bunch of shorts coming out these
days on YouTube so be sure to check out
our YouTube
channel and if you if you like this
episode please share it with a
friend don't be self- relying about it
share it get it out there see see what
happens actually I had that happened a
woman told me the other day that she was
in a huge fight with her husband and
they decided to listen to a podcast
together wow and it got them out of
their fight which I thought was great
that's awesome yeah it felt good yeah
see this is what's possible everybody
enjoy
[Music]